# EDR Research

* This page is dedicated to the Design Project 1 milestone of EDR Research. Below are the topics listed that I'm going to try and cover for this phase of research. Works cited can be found at this page: <a href="https://github.com/jwells24/CCC410F22-JWCapstone/blob/main/docs/References.md" target="_blank">Reference Page</a>.


### Identify Products

* In order to eventually build an environment and go through with testing one or more EDRs, we need to find products that we can implement that are free or maybe open source. Below are some products listed that I have identified that would be good for potential testing. Under the product is a description of the product and also a status of where I am in obtaining a version or licensing to use the product. 

1. **SentinelOne**: ActiveEDR is a paid product created by SentinelOne to allow for EDR services and active response for a network. This EDR provides endpoint and network monitoring as well. I wasn't sure how to go about acquiring a version of ActiveEDR for research purposes, so they will not be an option for Design Project 1 but maybe they will be in the future. 
2. **Webroot**: Webroot provides a paid product service for endpoint protection that consists of the standard endpoint monitoring and response protection. Webroot is designed more towards the individual user or smaller companies versus SentinelOne who targets larger organizations for their service. There is a free trial for this endpoint detection service, but I decided not to use up the free trial yet and put Webroot on the backburner for now. 
3. **OpenEDR**: OpenEDR is an open source EDR with a github repo here: <a href="https://github.com/ComodoSecurity/openedr?key5sk1=b9bcf88c4c9ef9bffb11eb0e8ba0d82743de4908" target="_blank">OpenEDR Repo</a>. This EDR is free, so there is no waiting on a company to respond in order to implement it and begin testing. OpenEDR consists of features including: Process/system/network monitoring, registry/low-level monitoring capabilties.  
4. **SNORT**: SNORT describes itself as a packet sniffer and a full blown Intrusion Detection System. There is a free version for SNORT as it is open source but there are alo paid versions that give users access to Cisco Talos verified rulesets. SNORT would be interesting to look at in the future, but for Design Project 1 we are going to leave it alone. 
5. **Wazuh**: Wazuh is another free, open source EDR with a lot of capabilities. It provides cloud services as well, but those are behind a paywall. Wazuh provides a lot of GUI's to use and singular endpoint protection as well. For Design Project 1, I am going to be implementing Wazuh and examining it. 

### Research & Document EDR Processes

* EDR stands for Extended Detection and Response and is characterized as an endpoint protection security control. EDR services typically are used in businesses as a means of preliminary protection for endpoints from threats and attacks outside of the network. In the case of Wazuh, the EDR package consists of a central node where an Indexer, Server, and Dashboard are installed. These central components are used for querying data provided by endpoints and for examining the status of endpoints and security. 
 
 * With Wazuh and most EDR's, the endpoints carry an endpoint agent that is deployed to each endpoint individually. This agent monitors and sends data back to the server. This agent also can receive information from the server in the event that a response is necessary to a threat. The endpoint agent is typically small in terms of installation size and is universal, meaning that it acts the same on each endpoint and can be used on all machines of the same operating system.
 
 * In Wazuh and some other EDR's, there are is usually a way for the administrator to access information in a GUI. This comes most times in the form of a dashboard. This dashboard is running on the central node in Wazuh and is accessible via http to the central node. In this dashboard, we find information gathered from the endpoints, a list of endpoints, and various other ways to process and work with the data from endpoints. We are also usually provided with a way to perform actions on an endpoint or maybe perform an active scan of an endpoint. 
 
### Research & Document EDR Known Issues & Successes

* EDR's are designed to provide an administrator more vision into endpoints and even the network. EDR's provide the capability to view the status and security of all endpoints on a specific network or in an organization via one central node. EDR's also allow for 24/7 monitoring of these endpoints and even the ability to resolve issues or threats when detected. 

* However, EDR's do not act as a fullproof antivirus on a system. An EDR is at its best when it is fully configured to monitor endpoints and create alerts when necessary allowing for the administrator to have time to remedy the issue. Also, there are still things like with any security control that an EDR will miss. An EDR will not catch 100% of the threats thrown at a system and is not meant to be fully monitoring the network and solving all issues in that regard either. An EDR is best when used as a monitoring and first response tool and combined with other security controls to provide full organization and network protection. 

### Research & Document EDR Known Examples

* There are many examples of EDR products in distribution today. Common EDR solutions can be open source such as SNORT, Wazuh, and OpenEDR. There are also EDR solutions designed for larger organizations that are a paid service such as Webroot and SentinelOne. I'm going to bring in an example of how a some of these are used in a professional environment by detailing the general use of them in an internship I had over the summer.

* I worked for a help desk company in Albany, New York that provides help desk and also organizational services. They are hired by an organization to provide technical support as well as network and endpoint monitoring. In this environment, which I was involved with over the course of two summers, SentinelOne & Webroot were both utilized in order to provide endpoint protection of different organizations. Either SentinelOne or Webroot agents were installed on user machines and were configured to provide monitoring statuses. I was able to witness numerous times the process in which the EDR is utilized when necessary.

* For example, the SentinelOne EDR was configured to report threats and alerts via email. When a threat was revieved, we were able to observe the status of the machine and the threat via the dashboard. The data on the dashboard contained things such as time of the threat, file location of the threat, and possible remedies to the threat. We, acting as system administrators at that point, were tasked with using this data provided by the EDR to find a solution to the problem. Solutions provided by the EDR were things such as conduct a full scan and remove the threat. Sometimes a full scan and removal of the threat by the EDR was enough to solve the problem and other times it was not, but the EDR provided us with the time, tools, and data that we needed to fix the issue. 
